Five years after escaping from the U.S.,
Dominic Toretto and his new crew, consisting
of his girlfriend Letty, Tego, Rico, Cara and Han
Lue, are hijacking fuel tankers in the Dominican
Republic. Dom suspects that the police are
on their trail, forcing the crew to disband
and go their separate ways, with Han deciding
to go to Tokyo. Realizing that he must leave,
Dom runs, leaving Letty behind
to protect herself from harm.
Three months later, Dom is now residing in Panama
City. He gets a call from his sister, Mia Toretto,
who tells him that Letty has been murdered. Dom
heads back to Los Angeles to attend her funeral
and examine the crash and finds traces of
nitromethane on the ground. He visits the only
car mechanic that sells nitromethane in LA and
forces him into giving him the name David Park,
the man who ordered the fuel, and informs him that
the only car that uses nitromethane in the area
is a green 1972 Ford Gran Torino Sport.
Meanwhile, FBI agent Brian O'Conner is trying
to track down a Mexican drug lord, Arturo Braga.
His search leads him to David Park, and he tracks
him down using an illegal modification record on
his car. Dom arrives at Park's apartment first
and hangs him out of the window by his ankles
before Brian arrives. Brian saves Park and Park
becomes the FBI's new informant. Park gets Brian
into a street race. Brian selects a modified 2002
Nissan Skyline GT-R R34 from the impound lot. Dom
races in his modified 1970 Chevrolet Chevelle SS.
Gisele Yashar, the liaison for Braga,
reveals that the winner will become the
last driver on a team that traffics heroin
between the Mexico–United States border. Dom
wins by bumping Brian's car while it is in
nitro, making him lose control. Brian uses his
power as an FBI agent to arrest another driver,
Dwight Mueller, and takes his place on the team.
The team meets up with Braga's personal henchman,
Fenix, and Dom notices that Fenix drives the same
Torino the mechanic described. They drive across
the border using tunnels to avoid detection.
Dom confronts Fenix and learns that he himself
killed Letty when she tried to escape him. A
stand-off ensues, though not before Dom
creates a diversion by loosening his car
with nitrous—sparking a vehicle explosion
that destroys his car and several others,
including Brian's. In the ensuing chaos, Dom and
Brian hijack a 1999 Hummer H1 with $60 million
worth of heroin in it. Dom and Brian drive back
to LA and hide the heroin in a police impound lot,
where Brian picks up a modified Subaru Impreza
WRX STI Hatchback; they subsequently drive back
to Dom's house, where they reunite with Mia.
Dom finds out Brian was the last person to
have contact with Letty, which results in Dom
attacking Brian until he explains that Letty
was working undercover—she was tracking down
Braga in exchange for clearing Dominic's record.
Brian tells his superiors that in exchange for
Dominic's pardon, he will lure Braga into a trap,
forcing him to show up to exchange money for
the heroin. At the drop site, the man who
claims to be "Braga" is revealed as a decoy, and
"Campos"—the real Braga—escapes with Fenix and the
pair flee to Mexico. In the ensuing chaos, Fenix
nearly runs over Gisele, before Dom saves her.
Brian and Dom travel to Mexico to
catch Braga, with the help of Gisele,
who gives them directions as a favor in return
for Dom saving her life. Brian and Dom find him
at a church and apprehend him. As Braga's henchmen
try to rescue him, Brian and Dom drive through the
tunnels back to the United States. Brian crashes
his car after taking fire from Braga's men.
He is then injured after being T-boned by Fenix.
Before Fenix can kill Brian, Dom drives into,
kills Fenix and avenging Letty's death. As police
and helicopters approach the crash site on the
American side of the border, Brian tells Dom to
leave, but Dom refuses—saying he is not running
anymore. Despite Brian's request for clemency,
the judge sentences Dom to 25 years in prison.
Brian resigns from the FBI and Dom boards a bus
that will transport him to prison. As the bus
drives down the road, Brian, Mia, and the rest of
the crew, arrive in their cars to intercept it.